# CodeBreaker

A program that uses the Caesar Cipher to encrypt and decrypt secret messages.

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Caesar_cipher>

## Instructions for Part A

Create a Caesar Cipher encryption algorithm. For now, try shifting all the letters in the "BABEL" one letter position to the right. The encrypted message should be "CBCFM".

Try modifying your code so that it can handle lowercase and uppercase letters.

The encrypted string `secret` should include all the spaces, punctuation symbols, and numbers found in the `message` string. Try adding non-letter characters to your `message` string.

Try the word "zebra" and shift by 1. "z" should become "a" but it doesn't. Try fixing that! Next try making the shift amount 2. You should get "BGDTC" for "ZEBRA" with a shift amount of 2. Make sure you can shift messages by any amount 1-25.

Prompt the user for a message they would like to encode. You will need to change the user's message to all upper case or for an extra challenge, modify your encryption algorithm to handle upper and lower case letters.

Prompt the user for the Caesar Cipher key, aka the shift amount. The key should be a number between 1 and 25.

## Instructions for Part B

Give users the option to either load text from a plaintext file with the ".txt" file extension or let them type their message.

While you're testing your program, don't ask yourself for the file name everytime, make the file name hardcoded to "secrets.txt".

Ask the user if they know the shift value they want to use. If they say "yes" the program should ask the user for the shift amount.

## Instructions for Part C

If the user doesn't know what shift amount is needed to decrypt a secret message, enable the user to decrypt Caesar Cipher messages with brute force code breaking! Let the user view the results generated by applying all 25 unique shift amounts to part of the message. Before you start on this it might be a good idea to move your Caesar Cipher algorithm from the `start` function into its own function. The function should accept a string to encrypt/decrypt and a shift amount as a parameter. It should return the encrypted or decrypted message.

```js
function ceasarCipher(message, shiftAmount) {
	// code here
}
```

Enable the user to select the successfully decoded message from the results and see the full length decoded message. HINT: One way of doing this is to create 25 buttons on the screen, one for each shift amount. If you have one button on each row they will not be able to show the full message. Use slice to only attempt to decode part of the message to show on each button. When the user clicks a button, clear the screen and display the full result.
