# GenerativeArt

Generative art is computer art generated by an algorithm.

Watch the first few minutes of this short film from 1968 to see examples of John Whitney's generative art:

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LaarVR1AOvs>

## Instructions for Part A

Create a p5.js draw function. Remember this function is used to draw a new frame 60 times per second.

Translate the origin to the center of the canvas.

Put a point at (0, 0). Can't see it? You'll need to set the point's stroke color to white and be sure to make the strokeWeight thick enough.

Create a variable `time` that goes up by 0.1 every frame (everytime the draw function is run).

Change the position of the point by setting the x and y position with the results of using `sin` and `cos` functions with the `time` variable. Try experimenting with different amplitudes and frequencies. Try making the point move in a circle.

Now try making one or both of your equations parametric by adding one wave to another!

```js
point(sin(time * 5) * 500 + cos(time) * 20, cos(time) * 40);
```

## Instructions for Part B

Create equation functions that take `time` as an input parameter and return a value for `x` or `y`. Use them to plot points.

```js
point(eqX(time), eqY(time));
```

```js
function eqX(t) {
	return cos(t) * 500;
}
```

Make two unique works of generative art. Create a variable `art` that stores the number of which artwork is currently being viewed. Use the `art` variable in if statements so your `eqX` and `eqY` functions can determine which equation to use for which artwork.

```js
function eqX(t) {
	if (art == 0) return cos(t) * 500;
	if (art == 1) return sin(t * 2) * 400 + cos(t) * 200;
}
```

## Instructions for Part C

Try changing other things in your artworks like the stroke weight or stroke color.

```js
//    RED, GREEN, BLUE
stroke(255, 100, 60);
```

Try using a for loop to draw multiple points during the same frame. You can vary the amount of points drawn per frame for each artwork, some can be drawn slower and other could be drawn faster.

Experiment with the color of the background and use an alpha (opacity) value so that the older points fade away.

```js
//  RED, GREEN, BLUE, ALPHA
background(0, 0, 0, 10);
```

Try making 4 more unique artworks for a total of 6.

Viewers of your art program should be able to use the arrow keys "right" and "left" to change the artwork that is being displayed.

You can use any of the p5.js and p5play functions you've learned to create dynamic generative art based on randomness `random(low, high)` or user input `mouse.x`, `kb.presses(key)`.

## Instructions for Part D

Use the equations of two points to create a line! Implement `eqX2` and `eqY2` functions.

```js
line(eqX(time), eqY(time), eqX2(time), eqY2(time));
```

Create 6 unique artworks that use the `line` function.

In at least one of your line artworks, use a for loop to create a trail of lines.
